packages/ui5-task-stringreplacer/README.md, before:

# UI5 task for replacing strings from any files while creating build

Task for [ui5-builder](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-builder), replacing string values.

## Install

```bash
npm install ui5-task-stringreplacer --save-dev
```

or

```bash
yarn add --dev ui5-task-stringreplacer
```

## Configuration options (in `$yourapp/ui5.yaml`)

- debug: true|false  
  verbose logging
- files: `string`|`array`  
  Placeholders will be replaced with their values in files matched by this glob pattern
- replace: `array`  
  List of placeholder, value pairs

## Usage

1. Define the dependency in `$yourapp/package.json`:

```json
"devDependencies": {
    // ...
    "ui5-task-stringreplacer": "*"
    // ...
},
"ui5": {
  "dependencies": [
    // ...
    "ui5-task-stringreplacer",
    // ...
  ]
}
```

> As the devDependencies are not recognized by the UI5 tooling, they need to be listed in the `ui5 > dependencies` array. In addition, once using the `ui5 > dependencies` array you need to list all UI5 tooling relevant dependencies.

2. configure it in `$yourapp/ui5.yaml`:

```yaml
builder:
  customTasks:
    - name: ui5-task-stringreplacer
      afterTask: replaceVersion
      configuration:
        files:
          - "**/*.js"
          - "**/*.xml"
        replace:
          - placeholder: ${project.artifactId}
            value: my.sample.app
          - placeholder: ${project.version}
            value: 1.0.0-SNAPSHOT
          - placeholder: '{{app.AppTitle}}'
            value: My Sample App
```

3. Maintain all string placeholders and values in `.env` file

```env
stringreplacer.BASE_URL_PLACEHOLDER = http://localhost:2000
stringreplacer.some.deeply.nested.ANOTHER_PLACEHOLDER = Replace with this text
```

## How it works

The task reads all files based on configuration patterns and replaces all string placeholders with values for all files. All the string placeholders which are maintained in `.env` with prefix 'stringreplacer.' will be taken into account.

## License

This work is [dual-licensed](../../LICENSE) under Apache 2.0 and the Derived Beer-ware License. The official license will be Apache 2.0 but finally, you can choose between one of them if you use this work.

When you like this stuff, buy [@vobu](https://twitter.com/vobu) a beer or buy [@pmuessig](https://twitter.com/pmuessig) or [@TheVivekGowda](https://twitter.com/TheVivekGowda) a coke when you see them.

Commit message:

feat(ui5-task-stringreplacer,ui5-middleware-stringreplacer): support for multiple .env files
* feat(ui5-task-stringreplacer,ui5-middleware-stringreplacer): support for multiple .env files

Support for using multiple .env files to easily switch when running `ui5 build` or `ui5 serve'

re #545

* Implement requested changes

* fix(ui5-app): use @ui5/server@2.3.1 to avoid middleware issue

* fix(ui5-middlware-cfdestination): rollback to get-server@5.x.x

* fix(ui5-task-zipper): use @ui5/builder@2.11.2 to avoid builder issue

Co-authored-by: Peter Muessig <peter.muessig@sap.com>

packages/ui5-task-stringreplacer/README.md, after:

# UI5 task for replacing strings from any files while creating build

Task for [ui5-builder](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-builder), replacing string values.

## Install

```bash
npm install ui5-task-stringreplacer --save-dev
```

or

```bash
yarn add --dev ui5-task-stringreplacer
```

## Configuration options (in `$yourapp/ui5.yaml`)

- debug: true|false  
  verbose logging
- files: `string`|`array`  
  Placeholders will be replaced with their values in files matched by this glob pattern
- replace: `array`  
  List of placeholder, value pairs

## Usage

1. Define the dependency in `$yourapp/package.json`:

```json
"devDependencies": {
    // ...
    "ui5-task-stringreplacer": "*"
    // ...
},
"ui5": {
  "dependencies": [
    // ...
    "ui5-task-stringreplacer",
    // ...
  ]
}
```

> As the devDependencies are not recognized by the UI5 tooling, they need to be listed in the `ui5 > dependencies` array. In addition, once using the `ui5 > dependencies` array you need to list all UI5 tooling relevant dependencies.

2. configure it in `$yourapp/ui5.yaml`:

```yaml
builder:
  customTasks:
    - name: ui5-task-stringreplacer
      afterTask: replaceVersion
      configuration:
        files:
          - "**/*.js"
          - "**/*.xml"
        replace:
          - placeholder: ${project.artifactId}
            value: my.sample.app
          - placeholder: ${project.version}
            value: 1.0.0-SNAPSHOT
          - placeholder: "{{app.AppTitle}}"
            value: My Sample App
```

3. Maintain all string placeholders and values in `.env` file

```env
stringreplacer.BASE_URL_PLACEHOLDER = http://localhost:2000
stringreplacer.some.deeply.nested.ANOTHER_PLACEHOLDER = Replace with this text
```

## Multiple environments

You can keep multiple `.env` files and load a specific environment at build or serve time.

```
- dev.env
- staging.env
- prod.env
- package.json
```

```json
 "scripts": {
    "build:dev": "UI5_ENV=dev ui5 build",
    "build:staging": "UI5_ENV=staging ui5 build",
    "build:prod": "UI5_ENV=prod ui5 build",
 }
```

With `UI5_ENV` set, the strings will be loaded from the `<UI5_ENV>.env` file.

## How it works

The task reads all files based on configuration patterns and replaces all string placeholders with values for all files. All the string placeholders which are maintained in the process environment with prefix 'stringreplacer.' will be taken into account. If no environment name is set through the process environment variable UI5_ENV, then by default the file`./.env` is loaded.

## License

This work is [dual-licensed](../../LICENSE) under Apache 2.0 and the Derived Beer-ware License. The official license will be Apache 2.0 but finally, you can choose between one of them if you use this work.

When you like this stuff, buy [@vobu](https://twitter.com/vobu) a beer or buy [@pmuessig](https://twitter.com/pmuessig) or [@TheVivekGowda](https://twitter.com/TheVivekGowda) a coke when you see them.
