packages/ui5-middleware-index/README.md, before:

# UI5 middleware for delivering a welcome/start/'index' page to the client

> :wave: This is a **community project** and there is no official support for this package! Feel free to use it, open issues, contribute, and help answering questions.

Middleware for [ui5-server](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-server), delivering the `$index.html` of choice (instead of the directory listing).

## Prerequisites

- Requires at least [`@ui5/cli@3.0.0`](https://sap.github.io/ui5-tooling/v3/pages/CLI/) (to support [`specVersion: "3.0"`](https://sap.github.io/ui5-tooling/pages/Configuration/#specification-version-30))

> :warning: **UI5 Tooling Compatibility**
> All releases of this tooling extension using the major version `3` require UI5 Tooling V3. Any previous releases below major version `3` (if available) also support older versions of the UI5 Tooling. But the usage of the latest UI5 Tooling is strongly recommended!

## Install

```bash
npm install ui5-middleware-index --save-dev
```

## Configuration options (in `$yourapp/ui5.yaml`)

- index: `<string>`, default: `index.html`  
  file inside `$yourapp` to deliver for `http://<host>:<port>/`
- debug: `<boolean>`, default: `false`

## Usage

1. Define the dependency in `$yourapp/package.json`:

```json
"devDependencies": {
    // ...
    "ui5-middleware-index": "*"
    // ...
}
```

2. configure it in `$yourapp/ui5.yaml`:

```yaml
server:
  customMiddleware:
  - name: ui5-middleware-index
    afterMiddleware: compression
    configuration:
      index: "index_peter.html"
```

## How it works

The middleware delivers the configured `index` HTML-file to the client if the FQDN + trailing slash `/` is requested in the browser.

## Development

If you want to contribute to `ui5-middleware-index`, please use [`Prettier`](https://prettier.io) for code formatting/style and apply the rules from `./.prettierrc`. Thanks 🙏!


## License

This work is [dual-licensed](../../LICENSE) under Apache 2.0 and the Derived Beer-ware License. The official license will be Apache 2.0 but finally you can choose between one of them if you use this work.

When you like this stuff, buy [@vobu](https://twitter.com/vobu), [@stefanbeck3](https://twitter.com/stefanbeck3), [github.com/margopolo](https://github.com/margopolo) a beer or buy [@pmuessig](https://twitter.com/pmuessig) a coke when you see them.

Commit message:

fix(ui5-middleware-cfdestination): support UAA flow (#828)
To enable support for the UAA flow, the option `xfwd` of the
`http-proxy-middleware` is necessary to forward the redirect
host information for the SAML auth flow.

In the `xs-security.json` you need to configure the UI5 server
URL:

```json
{
  "xsappname": "sample-ui5-uaa-uaa",
  [...],
  "oauth2-configuration": {
    "redirect-uris": [
      "http://localhost:8080/login/callback",
      "http://localhost:5000/login/callback"
    ]
  }
}
```

next to the approuter server URL, so that it gets accepted
by the SAML auth flow as a callback.

The change also makes the disabling of the welcome file
configurable to allow the usage of the redirect handling
of the approuter.

The `ui5-middleware-index` has been extended to play properly
together with the `ui5-middleware-cfdestination` so that the
handling of the welcomeFile requests are detected properly and
redirected and handled by the cfdestination middleware.

To support authentication of HTML pages not served by the
approuter coming from the local UI5 server, you can make use
of the `appendAuthRoute` configuration option in the `ui5.yaml`
for the `ui5-middleware-cfdestination`.

Fixes #817

packages/ui5-middleware-index/README.md, after:

# UI5 middleware for delivering a welcome/start/'index' page to the client

> :wave: This is a **community project** and there is no official support for this package! Feel free to use it, open issues, contribute, and help answering questions.

Middleware for [ui5-server](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-server), delivering the `$index.html` of choice (instead of the directory listing).

## Prerequisites

- Requires at least [`@ui5/cli@3.0.0`](https://sap.github.io/ui5-tooling/v3/pages/CLI/) (to support [`specVersion: "3.0"`](https://sap.github.io/ui5-tooling/pages/Configuration/#specification-version-30))

> :warning: **UI5 Tooling Compatibility**
> All releases of this tooling extension using the major version `3` require UI5 Tooling V3. Any previous releases below major version `3` (if available) also support older versions of the UI5 Tooling. But the usage of the latest UI5 Tooling is strongly recommended!

## Install

```bash
npm install ui5-middleware-index --save-dev
```

## Configuration options (in `$yourapp/ui5.yaml`)

- debug: `<boolean>`, default: `false`
- welcomeFile: `<string>`, default: `index.html`
  the file to redirect to when the root path `/` is requested
- index: `<string>`, default: `index.html`  *deprecated*
  file inside `$yourapp` to deliver for `http://<host>:<port>/`

## Usage

1. Define the dependency in `$yourapp/package.json`:

```json
"devDependencies": {
    // ...
    "ui5-middleware-index": "*"
    // ...
}
```

2. configure it in `$yourapp/ui5.yaml`:

```yaml
server:
  customMiddleware:
  - name: ui5-middleware-index
    afterMiddleware: compression
    configuration:
      welcomeFile: "index_peter.html"
```

## How it works

The middleware delivers the configured `index` HTML-file to the client if the FQDN + trailing slash `/` is requested in the browser.

## Development

If you want to contribute to `ui5-middleware-index`, please use [`Prettier`](https://prettier.io) for code formatting/style and apply the rules from `./.prettierrc`. Thanks 🙏!

## License

This work is [dual-licensed](../../LICENSE) under Apache 2.0 and the Derived Beer-ware License. The official license will be Apache 2.0 but finally you can choose between one of them if you use this work.

When you like this stuff, buy [@vobu](https://twitter.com/vobu), [@stefanbeck3](https://twitter.com/stefanbeck3), [github.com/margopolo](https://github.com/margopolo) a beer or buy [@pmuessig](https://twitter.com/pmuessig) a coke when you see them.
